Good morning, everybody,
and thank you so much for getting
up early and coming to this session.
You know,
I didn't know quite what to expect.
It was announced as a hands-on session,
but I was worried it was going
to be a hangover session.
My name is supposedly on the
screen together with a nickname.
And please be careful with
pronouncing the nickname.
Yesterday evening,
I overheard somebody talk
about the Quartz Barbarian.
That's not good.
Let's get right into it.
We have something for everybody
to know that's not quite true.
We have a restricted audience,
as you can see by looking around you,
which means that nearly everybody
has already moved to Quartz,
and there is no need for me to stand
up and to come back anymore next year.
So, Carbon developers who still have not
Finish the move to replace
QuickDraw by Quartz.
There's one serious thing,
among all the jokes,
that I want to point out.
We really, really recommend that in this
process you also consider
adopting the HIVU architecture.
I know many of you have
made the step already,
and those who did will agree with me
that it's a real good recommendation.
It will make your code so much cleaner,
and it's just a natural environment.
To adopt the Quartz API and use it.
By something for everybody,
I meant that we start out really
simple with some hand-holding for
those of you who should have never
started getting their feet wet in
the Quartz API or their hands dirty,
if I dare say so.
So this is going, and that's going to
be the just draw step.
But then we advance fast,
and I will bring up
Ted Jucevic from DTS on stage.
He is the DTS doctor who
deals with your incidents,
and he knows the answers to that.
He knows your questions,
and he presents his answers in a sample
application called Carbon CG Compositor.
And I will come back with,
under the theme, mouse tracking,
where I want to cover a lot of things.
So, we have a lot of background,
and mouse tracking is just the
theme that holds it all together.
So, how about this just draw?
The idea was to make it as simple,
as basic as possible,
and to just have to get the start,
to try out.
Main points,
we show how to get the CG context.
We work with the HIVU coordinate
system and have to spend some time
explaining around with coordinates.
And then,
the first not completely trivial
step is how to replace a drawstring.
And I think everybody who moves
from the QuickDraw API to Quartz
sooner or later runs into this need,
and we need to spend some time on it.
How about the coordinates?
Well, we have the left-handed system
and the right-handed system.
The origin either at the top left,
as we have been used to by QuickDraw,
or the bottom right.
The pictures below show how
to move from one to the other.
The X coordinate doesn't change
the horizontal coordinate,
and the Y needs to be
flipped and shifted.
In Quartz parlance,
this means we apply an affine transform
to scale the Y axis by minus one.
It flips it up,
but then we have to shift it back down.
Otherwise,
you wouldn't see anything in your view,
which is shaded,
where the drawing happens.
The good news is that it
doesn't matter if you go from
QuickDraw coordinates to Quartz,
native Quartz coordinates, or back.
It's always the same transform.
And instead of building it
up by transform scale and
then a transform translate,
we just will make a simple
transform that contains everything.
So, just draw as simple as possible.
The only thing is a piece of
diagonal line so we know where the
origin is and in which direction.
The Y is oriented, and then a drawstring.
So, we have some real work to do.
Let's go.
Can we move to the Xcode machine, please?
And I certainly wish I wouldn't have to
turn my back to you during all this work.
So this is one of the two
examples that you find in the
package that you downloaded,
and you're supposed to work
along with me on your laptops,
on your powerbooks.
I have two variants,
the QuikTrav variant and
the Core graphics variant.
Let's look at it.
I promised it to be
as simple as possible.
If you ask Xcode to come up
with a Carbon application,
then that's what you get.
And the only thing I added
was installing a draw handler
on the Windows content view.
This is something the HIToolbox
people frown upon a little bit.
It's not really the real
way to deal with HIViews,
but it's for now the quick and dirt the
shortest way to get something going.
And afterwards, I will... Okay.
I'll fix this and create a correct HIView
to be embedded in the content view.
So what we're interested
in is the draw handler.
That gets passed in.
And by the way, note that the view,
as usual here,
gets passed in as user data,
such that when our draw
handler gets called,
Then we have the user data
that contain our view in case
we need to get back to it,
and we may have to.
The first thing I'm doing here
is pulling out the CG context,
which is one of the event parameters,
and then pass it along to my just
draw something just to factor it
out while we are tinkering around.
And our just draw something for
now doesn't use the CG context
ref yet because I only
have the QuickDraw version.
But now we are getting to work and
we are replacing this by Quartz.
Move to, that's an easy one.
CG context, move to, point.
Line 2, that's an easy one.
CG Context, add line to point.
Okay.
Well, we are still real beginners,
so we want to see right
away what happens.
Oh, this worked well.
The part that worked well was that we
don't use the QuickDraw code anymore.
What we are missing here is
that the model is different.
In order to get something to draw,
we need to tell what we want
to do with this path that's
current inside the CG context.
We can either, and we just,
so far we only built the path,
but we didn't do anything with it.
We need to ask the context
to stroke the path,
for example.
Maybe this will work better.
And now we have a nice
anti-alias diagonal line,
just as we expected.
Next step, the drawstring part.
While we have text font and text size,
in Quartz this is called
CG Context Select Font,
and I don't remember the parameters.
So, yeah,
I could have remembered the context,
and then we need a C string
as font name and the size.
We can do that.
Oh, here it comes.
Okay.
Let's try Geneva.
And Aten, just to match it.
Oh, and the text encoding thing.
KCG.
Is there something?
No.
Encoding.
Oh, yeah.
Encoding Macroman.
That fits the bill.
And in order to show text,
we don't draw the text
or stroke or whatever.
We need to show it.
Show text.
Now here we have two alternatives.
Show text or show text at point.
It's probably safer to take the at point.
The background story is that
QuickDraw maintains the current
pen position and uses it also
for the next text drawing call.
Whereas in Quartz,
we just had built a path internally,
stroke it, now it's gone.
And we haven't any pen
position for text drawing.
So we better specify it.
I forgot again the parameters.
No.
I meant text at point.
Hitting the wrong keys all the time.
And our string, ha.
Now this time we need to set
it up because I use hello
world as Pascal string.
So that's where we are with the
beginning of the characters,
and this, the length is the first byte.
OK.
Build and go.
I did something wrong again.
Much better.
Well, not quite finished yet.
So this is the story
about the coordinates.
If you remember the little drawing with
the coordinate flipping and drawing,
there was a little character drawn.
And flipping, of course,
put the text upside down.
And that's what we are running into now.
How can we deal with this?
One way to deal with this is
[Transcript missing]
There is a call, "HIV,
get bounce." And now
remember that I said,
"HIV, ref." That's the user data.
And here I get bounce, hopefully.
And now I use CG Context Concat CTM,
the current transform matrix,
with a CG-affined
transform that represents
The combination of flipping across the
vertical coordinates and shifting down.
Okay, transform make.
One for the X.
These are the diagonal elements.
Minus one for the Y scale.
We don't move in the X direction,
but we do move in the Y direction
by the height of the bounds.
Okay, maybe this builds and runs.
It does.
And the text is, as expected,
in the right orientation.
But now, of course,
the coordinates are wrong.
So we could fix up all these
coordinates such that we get back to
the appearance in our QuickDraw content
and still have the correct text.
But in case you don't want to do this,
we have another alternative.
And that's the point.
So either we do this...
[Transcript missing]
"The Y-axis." Let's see what happens now.
So I didn't change anything
in the drawing above.
We always go to 0, 0, 100, 100.
We still use--
The same coordinates as in QuickDraw,
we still use the HIView coordinates,
but we added instead
this flipped text matrix.
And now we should see
when we can compile.
And if... okay.
If everything was as simple,
now we got what we wanted.
We should go back to the slides now,
so I get more to talk
instead of screwing up code.
The drawstring is missing.
Well, it's not really missing
anymore because I showed you
how to do it with CG Context,
Show Text, and so on.
But you remember there is
this MacRoman encoding.
If I put in any other constant,
you get garbage.
It just won't work.
Which means this Show Texted point
is the most convenient replacement
for drawstring in those cases where
MacRoman is just about good enough.
As soon as you go abroad and you
need other text systems or anything,
or you have other requirements
that go beyond the most
basic MacRoman text drawing,
that's not good anymore.
So the next recommendation
is the HITimDraw text box.
And in the next phase of the next
step of our Just Draw sample,
I have put in the code
that shows how to use it.
The good news is HITimDraw text
box has an extra parameter.
It's called orientation that
allows you to use it in both
coordinate system orientations.
It makes it convenient.
The bad news is you cannot
completely control... Well,
you can, and that's what I'm doing
actually in the code,
but with bad consciousness,
with embarrassment.
Because the only way to get the font
and size that you really want is to
specify it through a graph board.
So that's on the other side.
The benefit is you have symbolic virtual
font ID values in HITimDraw text box,
which are the right way to
go for the completely high
resolution screen future and so on.
And to be completely in line with
the general look and feel of the
UI if somehow the theme changes.
And then finally, you know,
ATSUI is the right...
This is the gold standard
of doing text on the Mac OS.
You get everything.
And if you look at the last line,
you will understand why
I'm emphasizing so much the
coordinate flipping all in back.
Atsui expects you to use a coordinate
system that is native to Quartz that
has the origin at the bottom left.
We should go back and look at it in code.
This will be faster now.
It's, of course, prepared already.
So I just walk you through a little bit.
And I have a little bit more
bells and whistles in here.
You see we want to flip between
various ways of drawing text,
either the CG context show text
or the HI theme or the ATSUI mode.
And then we flip back and forth between
using HI view coordinates or not.
And a global that's being set in
a little key handler that I added.
Depending on where I hit the keyboard,
we select one or the other.
And then when we just draw
something from before,
it gets called in the same way.
But if we decided not
to use HIVU coordinates,
then we do this.
This additional transform on
the CTM to play everything,
all our drawing in the native.
And then there is some additional
thing which you will find in the
comments and we don't have time
here to go through everything.
I just run it and...
through.
Now the extra thing is that the
title bar shows the current settings.
Here we have show text
with HIV coordinates.
I can flip back to the draw string
and forth and you see that the text
is not being rendered in precisely
the same way and that the diagonal
line is either anti-aliased or not.
Okay.
And then you can flip through and
use hithin draw text with or without,
sorry,
with or without the HIV coordinates
and there's no change.
Why is there no change?
Well, because I spent hours and
hours to try to get it right.
And that's it for me.
The overview at the beginning was about
handing it off to Ted Jucevic now.
So please welcome Ted.
Where is he?
Thank you, Joseph.
And you're going to need slides, right?
Let's go back to the slides real quick.
All right, so my name is Ted Jusovic.
I'm one of the DTS engineers,
as Joseph described,
and I've had actually quite a few
questions from people transitioning
from QuickDraw to Quartz.
There I am.
One of the things I've found is a lot of
people are trying to do it incrementally,
and it seems like what people are
actually trying to do is they're
going first to Quartz and then
they're moving their code to HIV use.
And one of the things I've found is
it's actually easier if you first
transition to HIV use because then your
coordinates are still in the same area,
you know, it's all real easy that way.
And then you make your transition
to Quartz if you're going to do
it incrementally or just do it
all at once and just save yourself
the hassle of going partially.
So what I'm going to be showing
is the Carbon CG compositor.
It's a sample that's kind of
a compilation of a bunch of
DTS incidents that I've gotten.
Essentially, I drag in some images,
adjust the image translucency,
maybe select a masking color,
and so like I'll select a pixel and
it'll mask out all the pixels that have
a color that's similar to that one.
And then I can lay images on
top of each other and then drag
out the results to the finder.
So what is this going to show us?
Well, I'm using cgImageSource and
cgImageDestination to bring
image files in and save them out.
Cool thing about this is it works
really well with the Pasteboard APIs.
They both use MIME types,
and it also makes it easy for me
to just drag in any image source
and not have to care about it.
As long as cgImageSource supports it,
I automatically get it for free.
And down the road,
when more image sources
are actually added,
I'll get those for free.
The same thing when I'm
dragging out to the system.
All I have to do is specify
a MIME type and a file name,
and it'll convert my images
automatically to that image format.
We're going to talk about
adjusting the translucency.
There's two kinds of translucency
that we're going to be talking about.
One is the alpha of the entire image,
and so I'll be adjusting
that with a slider and then
compositing that over other images.
And then also creating translucency by
creating an image with masking colors.
And then I'm also going to
talk about color spaces.
The really cool thing about color spaces
is it makes color matching just easy.
It does all the color sync for you.
Whenever you're drawing in Quartz,
your colors and your destination have
a color profile that go with them.
And so if, say,
you're drawing with a color
that's different from the color
profile that you're drawing to,
it will actually do
the conversion for you.
The one thing, though,
is you want to stay away from
device color spaces because those
essentially mean that you know better
than the system what colors you need,
and you'll actually, most likely,
you'll end up with colors
that you're not expecting.
Going back to the image
source and image destination,
you don't have to use QuickTime for that.
And then also with the alpha,
Alpha is easy with Quartz.
You essentially get it for free and
almost have to just be aware of it.
I'm also going to talk about using
some off-screen drawing spaces.
I'm using CG bitmap context.
One thing to be aware of is that
when you're using an off-screen
bitmap like a CG context,
its orientation is different from
the current HIVU orientation.
So if you're going to be
compositing that into your HIVU,
you have to do the flip
like Joseph talked about.
I'm also going to be talking
about creating images from it.
That's essentially like the copy bits,
and then using the context to
scale the images if needed,
and create ones with
the coordinates I want.
It turns out that I actually
do have to use a region.
I get back from HIVU, I get a shape,
an HI shape,
that I have to convert into a
region to show the drag highlight.
So there's a few APIs that,
while they're deprecated,
you still have to use.
But if you've noticed in Tiger,
there's a lot less of those APIs.
And then going forward,
we'll even have less of those
APIs that you still have to use,
even though they're still deprecated.
And then I'm just going to talk
briefly about premultiplication.
If you create a CG bitmap context,
you own the bits with it.
This is an off-screen bitmap context.
But one thing to be aware of is if
your bitmap context has alpha in it,
and it's not just a mask,
those bits will be premultiplied alpha.
And so if you want to get to those bits,
you're going to have to un-premultiply
them before you manipulate them
and then premultiply them back.
And I have a function that I can
show you that does exactly that.
So let's actually look at this sample.
And you'll have to get the sample
after-- it'll be available on
our web sometime next week.
It didn't quite make the big drop.
So actually, if we could switch to
the other demo machine,
demo 2.
So let me just actually show
you what I'm talking about.
So this is my application.
It's a simple application
for dragging stuff in.
And let me just drag in--
I'm going to show you an image.
This is Times Square,
the Rockefeller Center.
And let me just select a masking color.
So essentially, I just selected a pixel,
and it decided that anything
that was similar to that pixel,
and I set up a kind of a masking range,
it went and made essentially translucent.
But I actually want the full
I have a picture for my background,
so let me drag in a different one.
Let me paint this one.
And that composited to the background.
And at the same time,
I'm compositing this to what
I'm calling is my scratch pad,
which is my off-screen bitmap context.
I'm kind of layering stuff, too.
So let me bring in the original picture.
And you can see over here,
I got this slider to adjust
the translucency of the
picture that I'm overlaying.
And that's actually--
it's real-- like I said,
it's real easy in Quartz.
You get that kind of stuff for free.
And then I can go ahead and select,
let's say--
And you can see the water from
the other image showing through.
And Quartz is mostly doing
this all for me for free.
I don't have to go through like
you guys did with QuickDraw and
kind of simulate alpha in that
unused area of a 32-bit pixel.
So it makes it really easy.
And then, of course,
now I've created an image,
dragging it out.
And I don't know if you can see it.
I actually have a border around this
image that I used when I drew this HIVU.
You really can't see it on the stage.
But I'm actually going to remove that.
And the reason is because I've
drawn the border in the HIVU.
And when I'm creating my drag image,
I'm asking the HIVU for its image.
And so it turns out that border is
coming out along with my drag image.
And instead of that,
what I'm going to do is create
my drag image from my original
source off-screen bitmap.
So enough showing.
Let's actually get to the code.
So, like I said, the first step, really,
if you're going to do it incrementally,
go to the HIVU stuff.
And then if you're going
to do it all at once,
just go straight HIVU and...
So let me look at my Draw Event Handler.
And essentially,
I've kind of organized things.
I've got my HIView files.
These are the ones that have
to do with HIView and events,
event handling.
And then I've got my drag-and-drop
files that drag and drop,
and then my CG files.
And let's go to this Composite
Images in View Draw Event Handler.
It's a long name,
but I'm trying to make it
explicit exactly what it does.
This is something that's
called by HIToolbox.
The cool thing about this
is I just tell HIToolbox,
you need updating, and then it'll call
my draw event handler,
and I can draw my content.
I stored in my window,
using the set property, get property, my
My bitmap context, my overlay picture,
and then a mass picture.
And then I also store the alpha.
And so I get those
properties in my HIV draw,
and I go down and--
Right here,
you notice I have to actually flip
the orientation because the bitmap
context I'm pulling my image data
out of is a CG bitmap context,
so it has the inverted
orientation from the normal HIVU.
And then I come down here.
I composite my image to the
on-screen context with the alpha
that I've actually selected.
The first thing-- so let me actually go--
And look at that function itself.
And it's actually pretty straightforward.
I saved my graphics state because when
I apply an alpha to a graphics context,
that
"It's sticky.
But what you can do is use
save state and restore state to
So that you can actually draw the image
with the alpha and then remove that alpha
parameter from the context so that future
images that you draw to that context
won't be affected by that setting.
And so right here,
I set the alpha for the
image that I want to draw in.
I draw the image and
then restore the state.
So in my-- when I'm doing
some setup in the HIVU,
I create my off-screen context.
I have initialized Windows properties.
So in my-- when I'm doing
some setup in the HIVU,
I create my off-screen context.
I have initialized Windows properties.
I have this function.
Normally, it would return me a pointer
to the memory because,
you know,
just like with an off-screen gWorld,
you have-- you know,
you allocate the memory in this case.
At some point,
I'll have to free up that memory,
just like with an off-screen gWorld.
Nice thing about it is actually
there's a function in here,
and this is in my window closing handler,
where I can actually--
Let's see, clean up the mask,
clean up the overlay image.
I can get the data actually from the
pointer to my data from the context.
So if you don't have a place that
you can actually save it off,
you can get to it later and then free
up the pointer or the memory that you
allocated for the off-screen bitmap.
Let me just go in real
quick and just point out the
premultiplied code I have in here.
This is just kind of as an example.
I didn't need it for this sample,
but I wanted to include it in.
I'm assuming in my floats,
the first is the red, green, blue,
and then the alpha.
One thing to be aware of is
when you have lossy images
and you're un-premultiplying,
you know,
they do a lossy data conversion.
And so while it's not technically legal,
it's possible that a component value,
say, like the red value,
would actually have a value
that's larger than my alpha.
But the way you get to a
premultiplied pixel is you multiply
the component by the alpha.
So if the alpha is, say, 0.5,
even if the pixel for the red was 1,
it's got to be 0.5 after
it's premultiplied.
And if it's not like that,
I just go through and
clean it up right here.
And then to un-premultiply,
it's just dividing by the alpha.
And you get your original
RGB pixel values.
And then you just save off your alpha
for later if you want to premultiply.
So let's go talk about the drag and
drop and how easy the CG image source
and image destination makes it for me.
I have my drag-receive handler,
and this is something that HIToolbox,
you know, it's very easy to set up.
You can just set it up for your view,
and it'll call your drag-receive handler.
And I have this function create
overlay image from pasteboard.
And so what I'm doing
in here is actually,
since I'm dragging in files,
All I'm looking for is
this public file.url type.
There's a constant also
that goes along with it,
but this one makes it kind of a
little easier to see on stage.
And then I go down here
and I have this function,
create CG image from URL.
So what I do is I get the URL that
was dragged in and then I just say,
create an image from that.
Now, I don't know if that file actually
has an image or not in it,
but I figure if somebody dragged in,
let's give it a try.
And in my function, createCgImageFromURL,
it's actually pretty simple and
straightforward in how it works.
Three sides lost it, though.
So I create my image source with the URL.
And then I can check the
status of that image source.
And that will tell me if there's
actually an image in it or not.
If I actually look at the values,
the other values I could get returned,
essentially they're all errors.
So if that returns successfully,
then I know for a fact that
I actually have an image.
And so I can just create my image.
And all I'm asking for is the first one.
In theory, an image file could have
many different images in it.
But I'm just asking for the first one.
And it's zero index space.
And I just release my image
source and return my image.
And that will work with
any image file type.
So you don't have to go
back to QuickTime to use it.
You can just use CG image source.
And you can load JPEG, TIFF,
whatever I drag in.
So, and then conversely,
when I'm going the other way,
Let me get back to my sample.
When I'm dragging out to the finder,
I essentially create a promise.
And then in my promise handler,
I go and create.
"The actual file that's going out.
In this thing,
I'm actually cheating a little bit
because I have the file name in here.
It's kind of hard coded,
so I just kind of overwrite
the original file.
But
All I do is I get from the pasteboard
the location that the drop occurred to.
And then down here, FS.
I get the URL graph.
I'm missing my function
call up here on the screen.
Write bitmap context
image of type to URL.
So essentially what I'm doing is I'm
taking the contents of my bitmap and
writing it to a URL using the type JPEG.
And actually, you saw I created the JPEG.
So just for kicks,
let me actually just go
and convert this to TIFF,
and then let me go and
take this type JPEG,
[Transcript missing]
Dun, dun, dun.
Oh, and there's one more thing.
I wanted to show you that HI,
handle track drag.
This is the region thing.
Essentially,
when I get back the highlight
that I've actually gotten--
The file I'm dragging in is a file that,
you know, it's a file.
And so it will be accepted by the drag.
I get...
From my view, I get my shape of the view.
And I need this to
show my drag highlight.
Unfortunately,
ShowDragHighlight only takes a region.
So what I can do is convert that
shape into a region and then
call the old QuickDraw function.
Let's see.
Oh, yeah, and then one other thing.
I talked about when I'm
dragging out to the Finder,
I asked the system for--
The Views image,
and it's actually right here.
HIV, Create Offscreen Image.
And that actually gets me the contents
of the HIV on the screen and creates
an image for me that I can then use
as my drag image and stuff like that.
Alternatively,
I can actually create my image
All right, we've got new documentation,
too.
From my actual data source.
And I have this-- it's
kind of interesting.
When you're setting your
drag image with a CG image,
it actually uses the bounds of the image,
the actual pixel size of the image.
So if you remember,
my context I created was 1024 x 1024.
So if I just created a straight image
from that and used that as my drag image,
all of a sudden,
I'd have this huge drag image coming
out of this relatively small HIV.
And so I use a function,
createCgImageWithBounds from
bitmap context that I use to
essentially scale it down,
but it could be used the
same way to scale things up.
All I do is I create another
bitmap context with the
size of the image I want.
And then I just render
my image into that,
create a new image from that bitmap,
The temporary bitmap context,
release my context, free my bitmap data,
and then return.
The image I created that
has the new bounds and size.
It just makes it much
better on the screen.
So let me see.
Let me make sure.
I had a lot of things to cover,
and so I wanted to actually
write down some notes to make
sure I didn't skip anything.
And--
Right.
So the last thing I wanted to talk about,
and I'm actually going to just
lightly cover this because Joseph is
going to cover it in more detail.
is when I create my masking image,
essentially what I have to
do is I have to render it.
Let me go down to the actual one.
I have to do a little bit of math,
you know,
because my view has a limited size,
and then my CG bitmap
context I'm actually,
you know,
can hold my data is 1,024 by 1,024.
So I have to do a little bit of
math to figure out exactly where in
that bitmap context I have my data.
And then I render it to a--
A bitmap context that
doesn't have any alpha.
The reason for this is
you can't create a mask,
an image with masking colors,
from an image that has any kind of alpha,
has a mask associated,
or masking colors associated with it.
So, um, and then I have a fun-- once
I create that bitmap context,
I can, uh,
get the pixel data from
that bitmap context.
And this is a pixel data for the
actual pixel that I selected.
I have a function that goes
through and creates a mask,
it kind of just creates a range
based around those pixels because
I'm actually using live pictures,
and of course every pixel is
just right next to each other.
It's a little different
in the real world.
They're not all the same.
And then I just use a temporary
image I created from that context,
and I create my new image from that.
And that's all you have to do
to essentially mask out colors.
And so you get the blue
screen effect for free,
and Quartz will provide that for you.
So let's see, I went through,
I made a couple changes.
So let me just go ahead
and do a build right here.
And with any luck--
I didn't actually change
anything I didn't expect to.
And so now,
let me just drag in this image.
Let me start with this one.
Paint this one to the background,
paint this one in,
and now we got a little bit of
water in Madison Square Gardens and
some palm trees and stuff.
Nothing they would expect.
I can still do the translucency
with that masked image.
Paint it,
and then when I drag it to my desktop,
I created TIFF.
Now, the finder could be fooled
because it could be a JPEG image
with a TIFF extension because
I changed the name of it.
So just to make sure,
let's bring it up in preview.
And you will see this is
actually a TIFF document.
It's not just TIFF by name.
So with that,
I've actually shown you my code.
And these were the kind of issues
that I've been running into in DTS.
And again, let me just reiterate,
make your transition to the HI Toolbox.
It makes things much easier.
And then do your transition
to CG or do it all at once.
And then
You can get the features and
the values from the CG for free.
So let's go back to
the slides real quick.
So like I said, drag and drop,
CG image source and image
destination for dragging images
in and out makes it really easy,
real nice,
and work well with the Pasteboard.
You don't have to use
Quicktime again for that.
Copying image data.
You can just create images
from bitmap contexts.
If you wanted to just get a
portion of say of an image,
you can just adjust the transform so that
when you draw into your bitmap context,
you would actually just draw the
portion of the image that you want.
There's also subsampling.
"Color Management is easy.
I didn't have to do anything
with ColorSync in there.
When ImageSource brought in my image,
it actually figured out what the
"The color space and the
profile that went with it.
And so even if I had multiple
images from multiple profiles,
the color correction
is automatic for me."
And so with that,
let me hand this back to Joseph,
and he'll finish it up with
the mouse tracking demo.
Thank you.
Thank you, Ted.
Why mouse tracking?
When I started thinking
about a suitable subject for
For a sample code for this session,
I wanted something nostalgic
that went back to '83,
'84, something really QuickDrawish.
And I remembered how fascinated those of
us who were already born at that time.
How fascinated we were to track
the mouse and do freehand drawing.
So that's what I wanted to do.
First, I had to figure out how
to do it in QuickDraw.
And we will look at it in a way.
Then I found a reason why I needed
to talk about it here because we are
again juggling around with coordinates.
The mouse tracking loop,
the way it's set up,
requires that we convert from global
coordinates to local coordinates.
And it's until Tiger, before Tiger,
it wasn't quite obvious how to do
that without using a QuickDraw call.
So here we are,
and the HIPointConvert call is the
one I want to bring to your attention.
It's a tiger-only API,
but it's really convenient,
and it's the right thing
to go about these things.
Here is the mouse tracking loop,
and we will encounter it in various
contexts over the rest of the session.
I've wrapped the conversion
function from the global QuickDraw
point to the local HIPoint.
I've wrapped it up just to
take into account that we have
a neat API solution in Tiger,
but a not-so-neat one before.
And you look at the bottom.
Throughout the loop,
we call HIPoSETNeedsDisplay,
such while we are dragging.
The HIVoSystem will just repaint
everything as we need it.
So this loop here contains a polygon
because our freehand drawing,
I just collected in a polygon
and redraw the polygon.
That's the way to do it in QuickDraw.
How would we replace this in Quartz?
We have a CG path,
and we better use a mutable path
because we are changing it all the time.
We are building it up on the fly.
I will show how to use
such a CG path in practice.
Now, this CG path thing is
really fundamental for
For many cases where you are wondering
how do I replace this in Quartz,
it replaces obviously
things like polygons,
but it replaces also regions,
region handles.
In many cases where the region is
naturally represented by its outline.
And in the other cases,
we will work with image masks.
Ted already has spent some time on this,
and we will come back to this.
It's a concept that's unavoidable
for any non-trivial work.
So, get started with house tracking.
And I need the first machine again,
please.
Again, this is the second portion
you have on your sample code.
And this time I have three variants.
The QuickDraw variant, the first one,
let's first see how it goes.
Yeah, that's what we wanted.
See?
Now you can scribble around as much
as you like and find nice things.
Okay.
So there is not much to talk
about it because you have
seen it on the slide already.
Only one thing.
We replace the view by view data to
have room for storing our private stuff,
to hang it off of it.
And this file here,
the mouse tracking view,
is now as views should be done.
See, this in our main,
it's again the main that you know
as a default project in Xcode,
but here, once I have created the
window from the nib,
I create a mouse tracking view.
And this then is all done separately.
The next step,
you already have had a sneak peek.
I want to load an image that comes along.
This is to replace the picked
resources that we used to add to
an application and then load the
picked resource and draw a picture.
So that's how we do it now.
I could have used a couple lines for
image IO to make it even more flexible,
but the idea is that these images,
they're part of our main bundle,
so we know them, we know them by name,
and we know how to call.
Here I have a PNG image.
Thank you.
And in order, because we still have
a lot of work to do,
I promised to replace regions
and to replace CopyBits and
CopyDeepMask and all this stuff,
I suggest we...
You let me jump forward and avoid that
I dabble around in the code again.
So here we replace this polygon
tracking and drawing by the CG path.
You see I have made room for
the image as a background
thing to make it less boring.
And I have now, instead of the polygon,
a path.
There's one thing I need to explain.
There is the path applier.
This is used here when I draw the view.
[Transcript missing]
and depending on one or the other images
that would show up upside down as well,
but you know that already.
So once I want to get the path drawn,
I don't have an API to, say,
stroke the path.
Because Quartz has a
current path in the context,
and that's the path that's
used when I stroke it.
So I somehow need to put this path,
which is an independent path,
into the context.
And the same thing,
we want to be generic and universal
such that I can do whatever I want,
and my path applier only translates
and carries the separate path over
into the current path in the context.
And then I can do with
this path what I want.
For example, stroke it.
So the path applier
Just gets,
it gets called for each path element.
We know our path is a polygon we
only have move to and line to.
And that's it.
There's nothing else.
Should I-- oh, yeah.
Here's all this boilerplate code.
I decided not to use the HIV framework
and to keep everything bare bones
and to do all the legwork myself.
So here you have all
the boilerplate code.
Each time you instantiate a view,
you register the view,
you tell it which events we are handling,
and we have hit test and control
track in addition to the drawing.
You can also use the initialize
function to create a new view.
That's in the hand... That's
where we set up the image,
load image from main bundle,
and then we keep it around.
Okay, so this is supposed to work.
I just picked any picture.
The picture is positioned
at the bottom left here.
And those with sharp eyes may
have seen that the reason is
that my compiled conditional is
flipped to use CG coordinates.
If I would, and that I,
the destination rectangle,
I always set it off the origin 0, 0.
If I would flip this to the
other coordinate system...
Then, it would be at the top left.
Now we still can drag around the
mouse and do some scribbling,
and this gives us an idea.
Okay, this, yeah, whatever.
The next thing I want to do is put it in,
paint the background.
White is just too white.
Okay, this, yeah, whatever.
The next thing I want to do is put it in,
paint the background.
White is just too white.
Okay, this, yeah, whatever.
The next thing I want to do is put it in,
paint the background.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, this, yeah, whatever.
The next thing I want to do is put it in,
paint the background.
Here it comes.
What's the color space name?
KCG color space.
Do we have one?
Generic RGB.
Xcode already knew what I wanted.
And then we set CG context,
set fill color space.
[Transcript missing]
Not the RGB fill color anymore.
Just set RGB fill color.
And this color is something greenish.
So green is the dominant thing.
And of course, it's completely arbitrary.
It doesn't matter.
Just want to see how it looks.
Now, we are going ahead and
drawing the picture again.
Oh, here I simplified and only
made it with the HIVU system.
And then we have some
other stuff here around.
I don't have to change this too.
In drawing the view,
I should not draw... Where is it?
[Transcript missing]
Yeah.
So this was the point of
introducing a masked image.
You see, in many cases,
what we want is we want to
fill the whole background.
We want to mask out the
background of an image.
And how would we do that in QuickDraw?
This is one of those problems,
one of those questions that has been
asked over the last couple of years.
With QuickDraw,
we would draw this picture
into a one-bit off-screen.
Well, that wouldn't give the right
result the way the colors are
mapped to black and white,
so we would install a search block
and then be able to deal with each
pixel with each color and decide
how to map it to black and white.
And then on this off-screen bitmap,
we would call bitmap to region,
and the region is used as masked.
So how would we replace this in Quartz?
And that's the whole point here.
We need to build a masked image.
And this masked image...
is being built, of course,
by Create Masked Image.
Now I have two variants.
It's a repetition in some
way of what Ted already used.
It bears repetition in my mind
because you are going to use
it in practice sooner or later.
The idea is to mimic the QuickDraw thing,
but we don't have one bit off-screen,
so we go into a gray level off-screen.
This is the bit,
the gray level off-screen.
Bitmap context,
we draw the picture into it
and create an image off of it.
Now here is some mystery call.
Let's remove it for the time being.
And the masked image gets
produced by the call create,
CG image create with mask.
So if we run this,
Did I set it back to drawing the mask?
Yeah, I did.
And Peter, unfortunately,
has a color that looks like
he's squeezing in the stomach.
So what is going on?
Of course,
our mapping of our drawing of the
image into a gray level off-screen
produces a transparency corresponding
to the lightness of the image data.
And we need to fix this.
And the fix is here.
We need to fix the opaqueness.
So this is the equivalent to what
we would have done in a search proc.
We can go through all the
pixels of this 8-bit bitmap
off-screen and define a cutoff,
heuristically.
And as soon as the cutoff is below a
certain-- as soon as the pixel value,
the gray level, is below a certain value,
we just make it completely
dark and cut it off.
And with that,
Peter looks good again,
and we have masked out the image
and have a common background.
For a change,
we should switch back to slides so
I can talk to slides for a while.
So what did we learn?
Replace picked resources,
image create with data provider,
and internally it already
goes through ImageIO anyway.
It has been factored out,
so it's all up to you.
And the whole talk is about replacing
moving from QuickDraw to Quartz.
Yeah,
notice that we talk about moving now
and not about transitioning anymore.
The word transition has been completely
used up on Monday in the keynote.
Yeah,
so we are moving and replacing all the
regions and all the CopyBits things.
And I forgot to show you
how we come back to this,
how this old-fashioned type of
creating a masked image by going
through a gray level off-screen
and then creating the masked image,
we could have replaced it by a
single API call with masking colors.
And this is the call
that Ted already used,
too.
Now, these are Tiger APIs.
Before, it's feasible, but you need,
again,
go through a bitmap context and then
walk the alpha manually into the
alpha channel to mimic the mask thing.
But there was a good reason
to introduce these APIs,
at least in Tiger.
So, the next step.
We are getting into more copy mask
things and copy deep mask in particular.
And here's an overview
of what we want to do.
The CopyBits killer is
CG Context Draw Image.
Instead of source pixels,
we use the source pixels of the image,
which are provided by the
image's data provider.
We are going to do fancy things now,
which don't even need overlay windows.
I should not forget to show you
again where we do a hit test.
So, back to my machine here.
You know, we forgot that we can
still scribble around here.
And at this point,
I had an idea and I said,
maybe I should show how to do this.
That's a really QuickDraw thing.
See?
How would you do this in QuickDraw?
You would need a couple
gWorlds off-screen,
CopyBits back and forth,
and then use CopyDeepMask
to a hole in the belly.
To get the transparent
effect while we are dragging.
This would be a lot of work to show.
And it's something really, in my mind,
QuickDraw-ish.
We cannot translate the
QuickDraw API calls into making
a Quartz version of that.
We need to start out
completely differently.
And it's already all there.
So the first thing is do the hit test.
We have two states in this
application as it stands now.
One state is we are tracking
the mouse to draw the outline.
Then we are done drawing the outline.
And as soon as we get into a hit test
that we clicked inside this outline,
we are in the second stage where
we are dragging around the image.
So this needs to be
reflected after the hit test.
Hit testing means we are only
interested in the hit test when we
are done with building our path.
And now we create this one by one,
a single pixel bitmap context.
This single-pixel bitmap context
gets moved to our rear point.
"Where we want to test the hit.
Now our path that we remember,
we apply the path such that it,
this time we pass in our
bitmap context of course.
The bitmap context now has
our path as current path,
and we fill it.
When we fill this path, we check,
did this touch our
one-pixel bitmap context?
If it did, then we know our point
was inside this path.
And then we release things and we return
the result in the field hitSelection.
And with that,
as soon as we are in this hit selection,
we go to the tracking.
And this time we have two tracking
loops depending on whether we
hit the selection already or not.
The first one we discussed already.
The second is drag the
image selection around.
And it's just a copy-paste of the
original mouse tracking loop instead.
But instead of redrawing the path,
this time we just keep
up-to-date the selection offset,
which I added.
That's where we dragged it to.
And say we need to redraw
now at the new offset.
So it's all inside the draw the view.
Each time we draw the view,
we fill the background.
We draw the image first into its
original place where it belongs.
And now we check,
did we hit the selection already?
There's one thing I want to do.
I want to paint the selection now white,
the original selection where it was,
to suggest that we remove
all these pixels here.
OK, let's fill it with white.
But in order to do so,
I need to clip to my path.
And again, you see that it's always
the same mechanism.
I use my path,
which is kept in my local data.
I've applied a path to
move it into the context,
and now I can just clip to it.
I fill it, but because I clipped,
I don't even remember what I meant.
Oh, yeah, that's the-- it's OK.
So because I clipped and
I want to undo the clip,
I need to save and restore
the G state around it.
And now we keep going
in our drawing routine.
Well,
if we did not hit the selection yet,
then we have a path,
then we apply the path and stroke it.
This is the first state
of scribbling around.
But if we are done with path building,
Then, we first change the coordinate
system such that we move it to
where our selection offset is.
Again, once more,
we need to apply the path
because we need to clip to this
path now to draw our image.
Well, and now we draw the image,
except that we want to apply an alpha
to suggest we are not done yet with
moving it around and to see through.
And then we draw the image.
This is pretty simple for what it does.
If you think about it,
how this would work in QuickDraw,
how you would have to do
really much more work.
It was a surprise to myself.
Is there something else
I forgot to point out?
No, it's always the same,
and you will find if you compare
the various stages of the files,
how they grow out of each other,
how they repeat the same code,
and how everything is pretty minimal.
With that, I'm ready to go back
to my very last slide.
Can we move?
Yeah.
So here's the summary.
Honestly, HIV use are the way to go.
If we can do anything to encourage you,
and you need some encouragement,
let us know.
You are convinced now that you need
to get used to the transforms and
to juggling around with coordinates.
That's something new,
that's something unavoidable,
and it may take a while and
a couple of frustrations,
but it's not so bad as it may appear
the first time you don't get it right.
CGPathRefs, you need that to replace
polygons and to replace many,
many regions in your code.
There is really no need for
CopyBits and CopyDeepMask.
We can, in an example like this,
You should be convinced
that this is a good thing.
So, looks like that's really the
time to get rid of QuickDraw,
and it's fun,
and it will be really profitable for you,
too.
One more thing.
I didn't talk about Carbon Sketch,
but I have been working on it,
and I will continue to work on it.
It's, of course, now HIVU-based.
It has a couple of new features,
and I will add some more.
And within the next weeks,
I will be done with it.
And then it will take its time to go
through the process of being posted,
but please watch out for it.
It's there, and it's growing.
That's it from my side.
Here are related sessions.
There's not much left anymore.
Right after this session
in 15 minutes or 20,
optimal application graphics,
which is optimization of
usage of the Quartz API.
And then please come to
the lab and chat with me,
bring some food at noon.
and there is also the lab
session for optimizing.
And everybody knows Travis.
That's where all your feedback should go,
all your requests, all your complaints,
and all your compliments.
Thank you.